README.md, before:

# Class-Weighted Convolutional Features for Image Retrieval

| ![ALbert Jimenez][AlbertJimenez-photo]  | ![Xavier Giro-i-Nieto][XavierGiro-photo]  |  ![Jose M. Alvarez][JoseAlvarez-photo] | 
|:-:|:-:|:-:|
| [Albert Jimenez][AlbertJimenez-web]  | [Xavier Giro-i-Nieto][XavierGiro-web]   |[Jose M.Alvarez][JoseAlvarez-web] | 

[AlbertJimenez-web]: https://www.linkedin.com/in/albertjimenezsanfiz/
[XavierGiro-web]: https://imatge.upc.edu/web/people/xavier-giro
[JoseAlvarez-web]: http://www.josemalvarez.net

[AlbertJimenez-photo]: https://github.com/imatge-upc/Class-Weighted-Convolutional-Features-for-Image-Retrieval/blob/master/authors/AlbertJimenez.png?raw=true "Albert Jimenez"
[XavierGiro-photo]: https://github.com/imatge-upc/Class-Weighted-Convolutional-Features-for-Image-Retrieval/blob/master/authors/XavierGiro.jpg?raw=true "Xavier Giro-i-Nieto"
[JoseAlvarez-photo]: https://github.com/imatge-upc/Class-Weighted-Convolutional-Features-for-Image-Retrieval/blob/master/authors/JoseAlvarez.png?raw=true "Jose Alvarez"

A joint collaboration between:

| ![logo-gpi] | ![logo-data61] |
|:-:|:-:|
|[UPC Image Processing Group][gpi-web] | [Data61][data61-web]|
 
[gpi-web]: https://imatge.upc.edu/web/ 
[data61-web]: http://www.data61.csiro.au

[logo-data61]: https://github.com/imatge-upc/Class-Weighted-Convolutional-Features-for-Image-Retrieval/blob/master/logos/data61.png?raw=true "Data 61"
[logo-gpi]: https://github.com/imatge-upc/Class-Weighted-Convolutional-Features-for-Image-Retrieval/blob/master/logos/gpi.png?raw=true "UPC Image Processing Group"


## Abstract 
Image retrieval in realistic scenarios targets large dynamic datasets of unlabeled images. 
In these cases, training or fine-tuning a model every time new images are added to the database is neither efficient nor scalable.
Convolutional neural networks trained for image classification over large datasets have been proven effective feature extractors when transferred to the task of image retrieval. The most successful approaches are based in encoding the activations of convolutional layers as they convey the image spatial information. Our proposal goes beyond and aims at a local-aware encoding of these features depending on the predicted image semantics, with the advantage of using only of the knowledge contained inside the network.
In particular, we employ Class Activation Maps (CAMs) to obtain the most discriminative regions from a semantic perspective. Additionally, CAMs are also used to generate object proposals during an unsupervised re-ranking stage after a first fast search. 
Our experiments on two public available datasets for instance retrieval, Oxford5k and Paris6k, demonstrate that our system is competitive and even outperforms the current state-of-the-art when using off-the-shelf models trained on the object classes of ImageNet.


![Encoding_pipeline](https://github.com/imatge-upc/Class-Weighted-Convolutional-Features-for-Image-Retrieval/blob/master/figs/pipeline.png?raw=true)

## Slides

[Slides](https://github.com/imatge-upc/retrieval-2017-icmr/blob/master/slides/Class-Weighted%20Convolutional%20Features%20for%20Image%20Retrieval%20.pdf)

## Publication

## Results 

![Comparison with State of the Art](https://github.com/imatge-upc/Class-Weighted-Convolutional-Features-for-Image-Retrieval/blob/master/figs/StateArt1.png?raw=true)



![Comparison with State of the Art - QE & RE](https://github.com/imatge-upc/Class-Weighted-Convolutional-Features-for-Image-Retrieval/blob/master/figs/StateArt2.png?raw=true)

## Code Usage

### Prerequisites
We have used Keras running over Theano to perform the experiments. 

Was done previous to Keras 2.0 but should work with that version as well. 

Python packages necessary specified in *requirements.txt* run:

```
 pip install -r requirements.txt
 
```

Our Experiments have been carried out in these datasets:

* [Oxford Buildings](http://www.robots.ox.ac.uk/~vgg/data/oxbuildings/) (and Oxford 105k).

* [Paris Buildings](http://www.robots.ox.ac.uk/~vgg/data/parisbuildings/) (and Paris 106k).

Here we provide the weigths of the model:

* [CAM-VGG-16 Weights](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0BwotWbbE50RQMlFnZ1N3c2tvUm8)

### How to run the code?

First thing to do (important!) is setting the path of your images and model weights. We provide lists (also modify path! - Find and Replace) that divide images in vertical and horizontal for faster processing. At the beggining of each script there are some parameters that can be tuned like image preprocessing. I have added a parser for arguments, at the beginning of each script it is shown an example of how to run them. 

#### Feature Extraction

Both scripts extract Class-Weighted Vectors. The first one is used for the original datasets. The second for the distractors.  You tune the preprocessing parameters of the images as well as the number of Class-Weighted Vectors extracted. In "Online Aggregation" the order of the stored vectors is the imagenet class order, while in "Offline Aggregation" the order of the vector is from class more probable to less probable (predicted by the network). 

* A_Oxf_Par_Feat_CAMs_Extraction.py 
* A_Dist_Feat_CAMs_Extraction.py


#### Aggregation, Ranking and Evaluation

In both scripts you can choose the dataset you want to evaluate and if use query expansion or re-ranking. The first one is for offline aggregation. The second one performs aggregation at the moment of testing.

* B_Offline_Eval.py
* B_Online_Aggregation_Eval.py

```

B_Online_Aggregation_Eval.py --d <dataset> --nc_q <nclasses_query> --pca <n_classes_pca> --qe <n_query_exp> --re <n_re_ranking> --nc_re <n_classes_re_ranking>

```


## Aknowledgements
We would like to specially thank Albert Gil and Josep Pujal from our technical support team at the Image Processing Group at UPC.

| ![AlbertGil-photo]  | ![JosepPujal-photo]  |
|:-:|:-:|
| [Albert Gil](AlbertGil-web)  |  [Josep Pujal](JosepPujal-web) |

[AlbertGil-photo]: https://github.com/imatge-upc/Class-Weighted-Convolutional-Features-for-Image-Retrieval/blob/master/authors/AlbertGil.jpg?raw=true "Albert Gil"
[JosepPujal-photo]:https://github.com/imatge-upc/Class-Weighted-Convolutional-Features-for-Image-Retrieval/blob/master/authors/JosepPujal.jpg?raw=true "Josep Pujal"

[AlbertGil-web]: https://imatge.upc.edu/web/people/albert-gil-moreno
[JosepPujal-web]: https://imatge.upc.edu/web/people/josep-pujal

## Contact

If you have any general doubt about our work or code which may be of interest for other researchers, please use the [public issues section](https://github.com/imatge-upc/retrieval-2017-icmr/issues) on this github repo. Alternatively, drop us an e-mail at <mailto:albertjimenezsanfiz@gmail.com>.

Commit message:

Link to the slides on slideshare

README.md, after:

# Class-Weighted Convolutional Features for Image Retrieval

| ![ALbert Jimenez][AlbertJimenez-photo]  | ![Xavier Giro-i-Nieto][XavierGiro-photo]  |  ![Jose M. Alvarez][JoseAlvarez-photo] | 
|:-:|:-:|:-:|
| [Albert Jimenez][AlbertJimenez-web]  | [Xavier Giro-i-Nieto][XavierGiro-web]   |[Jose M.Alvarez][JoseAlvarez-web] | 

[AlbertJimenez-web]: https://www.linkedin.com/in/albertjimenezsanfiz/
[XavierGiro-web]: https://imatge.upc.edu/web/people/xavier-giro
[JoseAlvarez-web]: http://www.josemalvarez.net

[AlbertJimenez-photo]: https://github.com/imatge-upc/Class-Weighted-Convolutional-Features-for-Image-Retrieval/blob/master/authors/AlbertJimenez.png?raw=true "Albert Jimenez"
[XavierGiro-photo]: https://github.com/imatge-upc/Class-Weighted-Convolutional-Features-for-Image-Retrieval/blob/master/authors/XavierGiro.jpg?raw=true "Xavier Giro-i-Nieto"
[JoseAlvarez-photo]: https://github.com/imatge-upc/Class-Weighted-Convolutional-Features-for-Image-Retrieval/blob/master/authors/JoseAlvarez.png?raw=true "Jose Alvarez"

A joint collaboration between:

| ![logo-gpi] | ![logo-data61] |
|:-:|:-:|
|[UPC Image Processing Group][gpi-web] | [Data61][data61-web]|
 
[gpi-web]: https://imatge.upc.edu/web/ 
[data61-web]: http://www.data61.csiro.au

[logo-data61]: https://github.com/imatge-upc/Class-Weighted-Convolutional-Features-for-Image-Retrieval/blob/master/logos/data61.png?raw=true "Data 61"
[logo-gpi]: https://github.com/imatge-upc/Class-Weighted-Convolutional-Features-for-Image-Retrieval/blob/master/logos/gpi.png?raw=true "UPC Image Processing Group"


## Abstract 
Image retrieval in realistic scenarios targets large dynamic datasets of unlabeled images. 
In these cases, training or fine-tuning a model every time new images are added to the database is neither efficient nor scalable.
Convolutional neural networks trained for image classification over large datasets have been proven effective feature extractors when transferred to the task of image retrieval. The most successful approaches are based in encoding the activations of convolutional layers as they convey the image spatial information. Our proposal goes beyond and aims at a local-aware encoding of these features depending on the predicted image semantics, with the advantage of using only of the knowledge contained inside the network.
In particular, we employ Class Activation Maps (CAMs) to obtain the most discriminative regions from a semantic perspective. Additionally, CAMs are also used to generate object proposals during an unsupervised re-ranking stage after a first fast search. 
Our experiments on two public available datasets for instance retrieval, Oxford5k and Paris6k, demonstrate that our system is competitive and even outperforms the current state-of-the-art when using off-the-shelf models trained on the object classes of ImageNet.


![Encoding_pipeline](https://github.com/imatge-upc/Class-Weighted-Convolutional-Features-for-Image-Retrieval/blob/master/figs/pipeline.png?raw=true)

## Slides

<iframe src="//www.slideshare.net/slideshow/embed_code/key/3dG0uuBHScqPTa" width="595" height="485" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" scrolling="no" style="border:1px solid #CCC; border-width:1px; margin-bottom:5px; max-width: 100%;" allowfullscreen> </iframe> <div style="margin-bottom:5px"> <strong> <a href="//www.slideshare.net/xavigiro/class-weighted-convolutional-features-for-image-retrieval" title="Class Weighted Convolutional Features for Image Retrieval " target="_blank">Class Weighted Convolutional Features for Image Retrieval </a> </strong> from <strong><a target="_blank" href="https://www.slideshare.net/xavigiro">Xavier Giro</a></strong> </div>

## Publication

(under review)

## Results 

![Comparison with State of the Art](https://github.com/imatge-upc/Class-Weighted-Convolutional-Features-for-Image-Retrieval/blob/master/figs/StateArt1.png?raw=true)



![Comparison with State of the Art - QE & RE](https://github.com/imatge-upc/Class-Weighted-Convolutional-Features-for-Image-Retrieval/blob/master/figs/StateArt2.png?raw=true)

## Code Usage

### Prerequisites
We have used Keras running over Theano to perform the experiments. 

Was done previous to Keras 2.0 but should work with that version as well. 

Python packages necessary specified in *requirements.txt* run:

```
 pip install -r requirements.txt
 
```

Our Experiments have been carried out in these datasets:

* [Oxford Buildings](http://www.robots.ox.ac.uk/~vgg/data/oxbuildings/) (and Oxford 105k).

* [Paris Buildings](http://www.robots.ox.ac.uk/~vgg/data/parisbuildings/) (and Paris 106k).

Here we provide the weigths of the model:

* [CAM-VGG-16 Weights](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0BwotWbbE50RQMlFnZ1N3c2tvUm8)

### How to run the code?

First thing to do (important!) is setting the path of your images and model weights. We provide lists (also modify path! - Find and Replace) that divide images in vertical and horizontal for faster processing. At the beggining of each script there are some parameters that can be tuned like image preprocessing. I have added a parser for arguments, at the beginning of each script it is shown an example of how to run them. 

#### Feature Extraction

Both scripts extract Class-Weighted Vectors. The first one is used for the original datasets. The second for the distractors.  You tune the preprocessing parameters of the images as well as the number of Class-Weighted Vectors extracted. In "Online Aggregation" the order of the stored vectors is the imagenet class order, while in "Offline Aggregation" the order of the vector is from class more probable to less probable (predicted by the network). 

* A_Oxf_Par_Feat_CAMs_Extraction.py 
* A_Dist_Feat_CAMs_Extraction.py


#### Aggregation, Ranking and Evaluation

In both scripts you can choose the dataset you want to evaluate and if use query expansion or re-ranking. The first one is for offline aggregation. The second one performs aggregation at the moment of testing.

* B_Offline_Eval.py
* B_Online_Aggregation_Eval.py

```

B_Online_Aggregation_Eval.py --d <dataset> --nc_q <nclasses_query> --pca <n_classes_pca> --qe <n_query_exp> --re <n_re_ranking> --nc_re <n_classes_re_ranking>

```


## Aknowledgements
We would like to specially thank Albert Gil and Josep Pujal from our technical support team at the Image Processing Group at UPC.

| ![AlbertGil-photo]  | ![JosepPujal-photo]  |
|:-:|:-:|
| [Albert Gil](AlbertGil-web)  |  [Josep Pujal](JosepPujal-web) |

[AlbertGil-photo]: https://github.com/imatge-upc/Class-Weighted-Convolutional-Features-for-Image-Retrieval/blob/master/authors/AlbertGil.jpg?raw=true "Albert Gil"
[JosepPujal-photo]:https://github.com/imatge-upc/Class-Weighted-Convolutional-Features-for-Image-Retrieval/blob/master/authors/JosepPujal.jpg?raw=true "Josep Pujal"

[AlbertGil-web]: https://imatge.upc.edu/web/people/albert-gil-moreno
[JosepPujal-web]: https://imatge.upc.edu/web/people/josep-pujal

## Contact

If you have any general doubt about our work or code which may be of interest for other researchers, please use the [public issues section](https://github.com/imatge-upc/retrieval-2017-icmr/issues) on this github repo. Alternatively, drop us an e-mail at <mailto:albertjimenezsanfiz@gmail.com>.
